# Event Tracking App

The event tracking app allows a user to log in and view their upcoming events. The user can add new events, specifying their name, date, and time, update existing events, and delete events they no longer care to track. The user needs this app targets are organizing their events in a list format and sending notifications to users to remind them of upcoming events. <br><br>
The main screens a user will interact with are the login screen and the event list screen. To provide a smooth user experience, the login screen also acted as the registration screen for new users to prevent excessive navigation. The event list screen was kept as simple as possible to limit the learning curve new users would experience while getting used to it. The navigation was created in a way that will be familiar to users from their experience using other apps, and by limiting the amount of buttons and information displayed on each screen, a user is able to find the information and actions they're looking for much easier.<br><br>
This is the first complex mobile application I've created and the first time using Android Studio, so it was necessary to focus on one feature start-to-finish when possible before moving onto the next. This kept the code I was working with fresh in my mind and easier to build off of since I didn't need to spend as much time reviewing code I had already written to refamiliarize myself.<br><br>
Using Android Studio's built-in emulator was extremely helpful when testing to ensure the code was functional. Being able to interact with and navigate the app as a user would helped point out smaller issues that may have been missed with less interactive testing methods.<br><br>
My initial design intended to have the edit and delete functionality for events on their individual cards within the event list. When actually coding the funcionality it was significantly more difficult and didn't have the greatest user experience. Repurposing the new event screen to also include editing and deleting existing events felt a lot better as the user visually and practically.<br><br>
I've built CRUD projects previously in different languages and environments, and that experience made this project a little easier to figure out because while the implementation was significantly different, it still followed the same general logic. Originally my confidence going into this project wasn't the greatest, but realizing I had some knowledge already that I was able to apply raised it quite a bit.
